C 3A, Vijay Nagar
Delhi, India

School of Graduate Studies
University of Toronto
702/704 Spadina Avenue Toronto
ON Canada M5S 2J2

Dear Graduate Selection Committee:

I am writing this letter to express my sincere interest in the University of Toronto's PhD(Direct Entry)-Physics program in the Earth, Planetary and Atmospheric Physics(EAPP) group at the Department of Physics in University of Toronto. I have been working as a Scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology , Pune, India since last three years doing research in the field of Earth Sciences.

I have been wanting to pursue a PhD since my undergraduate days and the EAPP group at the University of Toronto has everything that I am looking for in a doctorate program. The research components that have appealed me to apply to the program are the lecture series organized by the group as well as the opportunities provided to present and interact with other researchers in the field. Furthermore the group is focussed on basic science with applications to assessments of climate change, environmental impacts of air pollution and the forecasting problems which have been a part of my work in the last three years. The EAPP group will provide me with an excellent exposure in these subject areas and which I hope will lead me to successfully completing my Doctorate training in Earth Sciences.

In addition, I believe that the postgraduate study at the group will help me achieve my short term and long term goals. I want to enhance my skills and gain experience and exposure in Earth Sciences. For this reason I believe that the program will be an ideal one. My short term goals are to learn the best practices that could help solve the mysteries of our planet using computation and observations. After completion of my doctoral training, I plan to seek a position wherein I could do my research as well as do teaching.

I am a hard working, self motivated individual and am prepared to take on the challenges that a PhD has to offer. I was inclined towards research since my Bachelors and had a research paper in my third year at college. And as I got an opportunity to work in research immediately after that(got selected as one of 25 out of 7000 candidates after screening from a competitive entrance test all over India), I want to do a direct PhD and this program is, I believe the apt one for me. 

I desire to contribute to the planet Earth in the best way possible and search for ideas so that it could be habitable for our future generations. I am confident that the PhD degree will help me pave the way for my aspirations. Thank You for considering my candidacy for the PhD(Direct Entry) program at the University of Toronto. My curriculum vitae and a brief statement of research experience are enclosed for your review. Please let me know of any additional details I can provide.

Sincerely,



Manmeet Singh
PhD(Direct Entry)-Physics candidate
University of Toronto


